Add v1.2 blog post (#1012)
vercel/turborepo: docs/pages/blog/turbo-1-2-0.mdx

---
title: Turborepo 1.2
date: 2022/04/06
description: Turborepo 1.2 introduces improved task filtering, artifact signing and integrity, and more!
tag: web development
ogImage: /images/blog/turbo-1-2-0/twitter-card.png
---

# Turborepo 1.2

import { Authors } from '../../components/Authors'

<Authors authors={['jaredpalmer', 'becca__z', 'gaspargarcia_', 'gsoltis']} />

Since releasing Turborepo v1.1 in late January, we've seen incredible adoption and community growth:

- 6.5k+ GitHub Stars

> - 140k+ weekly NPM downloads (up 2x since our [last blog post for v1.1](/blog/turbo-1-1-0))

Reviewer: ```diff
- up 2x
+ doubling
```

(Trying to humanize this.)

- 90+ OSS contributors
- 900+ members of the [Turborepo Community Discord](https://turborepo.org/discord)

> - 1.6 years of Time Saved through Remote Caching on Vercel, saving +2.5 months per week now

Reviewer: ```diff
- +2.5 months per week now
+ more than 2.5 months every week
```

(Trying to humanize this.)

Author: ```suggestion
- 1.6 years of Time Saved through Remote Caching on Vercel, saving more than 2.5 months every week
```

We're further improving ergonomics, observability, and security with Turborepo v1.2 featuring:

- [**New Task Filtering API**](#new-task-filtering-api): `--filter` flag adds more expressive and intuitive task filtering capabilities to `turbo run`.
- [**Human-readable and JSON dry runs**](#debug-and-automate-with---dry-run): `--dry-run` flag can print out information about a `turbo run` without executing any tasks, in both human and JSON-parse friendly formats.

> - [**Improved Internal Scheduler and Graph**](#improved-internal-scheduler-and-graph): We refactored `turbo` 's internal scheduler and graph to be more ergonomic and predictable

Reviewer: ```diff
- predictable
+ predictable.
```

(Or the inverse. pointing out a punctuation pattern difference.)

> - [**Enhanced Remote Cache Security**](#cache-outputs-integrity-and-signature-verification): Cryptographically sign remote cache artifacts with your own key phrase

Reviewer 2: Is `phrase` the right term here? Maybe just `key`? cc @gaspar09

Reviewer 3: We use `secret key` on the reference docs.

https://turborepo.org/docs/features/remote-caching#:~:text=To%20enable%20this%20feature%2C%20set%20the%20remoteCache%20options%20on%20your%20turbo%20config%20to%20include%20signature%3A%20true.%20Then%20specify%20your%20secret%20key%20by%20declaring%20the%20TURBO_REMOTE_CACHE_SIGNATURE_KEY%20environment%20variable.

Author: ```suggestion
- [**Enhanced Remote Cache Security**](#cache-outputs-integrity-and-signature-verification): Cryptographically sign remote cache artifacts with your own secret key
```

> - [**Enhanced Remote Cache Security**](#cache-outputs-integrity-and-signature-verification): Cryptographically sign remote cache artifacts with your own key phrase

Reviewer: ```diff
- phrase
+ phrase.
```

(this is separate from resolving the other comment here about using phrase at all)

Update today by running `npm install turbo@latest`. After running `turbo run` for the first time, you'll see instructions about how to use `@turbo/codemod` to run automatic migrations for `v1.2`.

## New Task Filtering API

> We are excited to release one of our most requested features: the ability to expressively filter tasks through a `--filter` flag. The `--filter` flag is the much more intuitive successor to the current combination of `--scope`, `--include-dependencies`, `--since`, and `--no-deps` flags. With `--filter` you can tell `turbo` to restrict executing commands to a subset of matched packages in your monorepo based on name, folder, and by whether it has changed since a git commit ref like so:

Reviewer: ```diff
- intuitive
+ powerful
```

```diff
- and by whether
+ or even if
```

```diff
- commit ref like so:
+ commit ref.
+ 
+ Take a look at some examples of what you can accomplish with the new `--filter` command:
```

Author: ```suggestion
We are excited to release one of our most requested features: the ability to expressively filter tasks through a `--filter` flag. The `--filter` flag is the much more powerful successor to the current combination of `--scope`, `--include-dependencies`, `--since`, and `--no-deps` flags. With `--filter` you can tell `turbo` to restrict executing commands to a subset of matched packages in your monorepo based on name, folder, and even if it has changed since a git commit ref. 

Take a look at some examples of what you can accomplish with the new `--filter` command:
```

- `--filter=<package_name>` - match by exact package name or glob pattern
- `--filter=...<package_name>`- match by package name/glob and include all dependent packages of match(es)

> - `--filter=...^<package_name>`- match by package name/glob and include all dependent packages of match(es), but exclude itself/themselves

Reviewer: ```diff
- match by package name/glob and include all dependent packages of match(es), but exclude itself/themselves
+ match by package name/glob and include all dependent packages of matches, but exclude the matches themselves
```

Trying to avoid somebody needing to read and parse something approximating regex alternation in this description.

> - `--filter=<package_name>...` - match by name and include all matched package's dependencies

Reviewer: ```diff
- match by name and include all matched package's dependencies
+ match by package name/glob and include all the matched packages' dependencies
```

This keeps the "package name/glob" pattern in other bullets.

> - `--filter=<package_name>^...` - match by name/glob and include all matched package dependencies, but not itself/themselves

Reviewer: ```diff
- match by name/glob and include all matched package dependencies, but not itself/themselves
+ match by package name/glob and include all matched package dependencies, but exclude the matches themselves
```

- `--filter={./path/to/package}` - match by path or filesystem glob pattern

> - `--filter=[origin/main]` - match by changed packages since a git commit

Reviewer: ```diff
- git commit
+ git commit ref
```

Consistent terminology with the first paragraph.

You can use multiple filters together to get even more granular filtering as well as combine each part of the above patterns `{}`, `[]` , `^` , and `...` to express more complex behavior.

> For example, assuming you have an app located in `./apps/web` directory, some local packages that it uses as dependencies, and a Turborepo pipeline where `test` depends on `^build` topologically, running:

Reviewer: ```diff
- topologically
+ [topologically](https://turborepo.org/docs/glossary#topological-order)
```

> ```jsx

Reviewer: ```diff
- ```jsx
+ ```shell
```

turbo run test --filter={./apps/web}[HEAD^1]^...
```

would tell `turbo` to ensure that dependencies are built and to run the `test` script in all of the local dependencies of the app located in `./apps/web`, not including that app itself, if the app has changed since HEAD^1.

> We believe `--filter` is more expressive and intuitive than `--scope`. In the future, we will be slowly deprecating the `--scope` flag.

Reviewer: ```diff
+ We believe `--filter` is more expressive and intuitive than `--scope`. In the future, we will be slowly deprecating the `--scope` flag.
- We believe `--filter` is more expressive and intuitive than `--scope` and plan to deprecate the `--scope` flag in a future release.
```

No such thing as slowly deprecating? I would pitch that we make sure we have a good migration story first, deprecate it, and aim for removal in 2.0?

> For more details and examples, refer to the new [filtering documentation.](/docs/features/filter)

Reviewer: ```diff
- [filtering documentation.](/docs/features/filter)
+ [filtering documentation](/docs/features/filter).
```

Period position outside the link.

## Debug and Automate with `--dry-run`

You can now see the impact of `turbo run` without actually executing any commands by appending either `--dry-run` or `--dry-run=json` to any `turbo run` command. This will result in either human or JSON output.

Dry runs are incredibly useful for two main situations:

- Debugging and testing run options
- Using `turbo` filtering and task graphs for building automations

![Turborepo Dry Run](/images/blog/turbo-1-2-0/turbo-dry-run.png)

> We hope that this will assist with enhancing observability and debugging, as well as make it easier to leverage `turbo` in dynamic CI/CD systems.

Reviewer: ```diff
- We hope that this will assist with enhancing observability and debugging, as well as make it easier to leverage `turbo` in dynamic CI/CD systems.
+ We hope that this will improve visibility into what `turbo` is doing, speeding along debugging as well as make it easier to leverage `turbo` in dynamic CI/CD systems.
```

Terser.

> ## Improved internal scheduler and graph

Reviewer: ```diff
- ## Improved internal scheduler and graph
+ ## Improved Internal Scheduler and Graph
```

Other sections are title case.

When using `turbo run`, every `package.json` task is added to an internal graph to map dependencies based on the inferred relationships defined in your Turborepo `pipeline`. This task graph allows Turborepo to efficiently schedule incremental concurrent task running and cache task outputs for later use.

> We've made major improvements to the internal task scheduler and resulting graph structure, resulting in better performance and a better developer experience. For example, in many cases, you will no longer need to use `--include-dependencies`. Instead, after specifying your task entry points, the new and improved graph will automatically handle this graph resolution for you.

Reviewer: ```diff
- We've
+ We have
```

Less convinced about this, it's just a bit less passive-sounding. 🤷‍♂️

## Cache Outputs Integrity and Signature Verification

> You can now enable Turborepo to sign remote cache outputs using HMAC-SHA256 with a secret key before uploading them to the Remote Cache. When signed cache artifacts are downloaded, Turborepo will now verify the artifact's integrity and authenticity. Any artifact that fails to verify will be ignored, discarded, and treated as a cache miss by Turborepo.

Reviewer: ```diff
- enable
+ configure
```

The user didn't enable Turborepo to sign cache artifacts, @gaspar09 did that. 😜

```diff
- downloaded, Turborepo
+ downloaded Turborepo
```

> To enable this feature, set the `remoteCache` options on your `turbo.json` config file to include `signature: true`. Then specify your secret key by declaring the `TURBO_REMOTE_CACHE_SIGNATURE_KEY` environment variable.

Reviewer: Ooo, framed it differently and now `enable` works. ("enable the feature vs. "enable Turborepo")

```diff
- options on your
+ options in your
```

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "[https://turborepo.org/schema.json](https://turborepo.org/schema.json)",
  "remoteCache": {
    // Indicates if signature verifcation is enabled.
    "signature": true
  }
}
```

> ## Other bug fixes and improvements

Reviewer: Title case.

Reviewer 3: I recall we have an updated content style guide. Does it apply here?

https://www.notion.so/vercel/Content-style-guide-7cacb16361484ad796e34507862a312b#bd77a9856a564dfcb7ce3eac256b4653

Reviewer: Huh, who knew!? So everything *not* Title Case then!

Reviewer: (Fantastic catch.)

> - `--sso-team` flag now enables teams with SAML tokens to log in through `turbo login` with correct team permissions.

Reviewer: All end in periods or none.

- `--log-output` flag allows you to control what logs are printed to the terminal, and when, allowing you to focus only on what's new.
- `FORCE_COLOR` environment variable is now supported
- `TURBO_FORCE=true` environment variable will now force execution
- `--remote-only` and `TURBO_REMOTE_ONLY=true` will tell `turbo` to only use Remote Caching
- We now show `>>> FULL TURBO` when there's at least one task attempted

> ## We're hiring!

Reviewer: Title case.

The Turborepo team at [Vercel](https://vercel.com) is hiring! We're up to 5 core team members already this year and are looking to hire even more. We're specifically looking for full time [Senior Build Systems Engineers](https://vercel.com/careers/senior-build-systems-engineer-turborepo-us-4383106004).

> ## What's next?

Reviewer: Title case.

> [Since our launch](https://turborepo.org/blog/joining-vercel), Turborepo has focused on seamless incremental adoption/migration and speeding up CI/CD. We are committed to both of those values, but now we'll also be focusing on improving Turborepo's day-to-day ergonomics for local development and observability. We're really excited about this next chapter and will be sharing more details soon.

Reviewer: ```diff
- we'll
+ we will
```

Author: ```suggestion
[Since our launch](https://turborepo.org/blog/joining-vercel), Turborepo has focused on seamless incremental adoption/migration and speeding up CI/CD. We are committed to both of those values, but now we will also be focusing on improving Turborepo's day-to-day ergonomics for local development and observability. We're really excited about this next chapter and will be sharing more details soon.
```

---
title: Turborepo 1.2
date: 2022/04/06
description: Turborepo 1.2 introduces improved task filtering, artifact signing and integrity, human-readable and JSON dry runs, and more!
tag: web development
ogImage: /images/blog/turbo-1-2-0/twitter-card.png
---

# Turborepo 1.2

import { Authors } from '../../components/Authors'

<Authors authors={['jaredpalmer', 'becca__z', 'gaspargarcia_', 'gsoltis']} />

Since releasing Turborepo v1.1 in late January, we've seen incredible adoption and community growth:

> - 6.5k+ GitHub Stars

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **6.5k+** GitHub Stars
```

> - 140k+ weekly NPM downloads (doubling since our [last blog post for v1.1](/blog/turbo-1-1-0))
> - 90+ OSS contributors
> - 900+ members of the [Turborepo Community Discord](https://turborepo.org/discord)
> - 1.6 years of Time Saved through Remote Caching on Vercel, saving more than 2.5 months every week

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **140k+** weekly NPM downloads (doubling since our [last blog post for v1.1](/blog/turbo-1-1-0))
- **90+** OSS contributors
- **900+** members of the [Turborepo Community Discord](https://turborepo.org/discord)
- **1.6 years** of Time Saved through Remote Caching on Vercel, saving more than 2.5 months every week
```

> We're further improving ergonomics, observability, and security with Turborepo v1.2 featuring:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We've further improved ergonomics, observability, and security with Turborepo v1.2 featuring:
```

> - [**New Task Filtering API**](#new-task-filtering-api): `--filter` flag adds more expressive and intuitive task filtering capabilities to `turbo run`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [**New Task Filtering API**](#new-task-filtering-api): `--filter` adds more expressive and intuitive task filtering capabilities to `turbo run`
```

- [**Human-readable and JSON dry runs**](#debug-and-automate-with---dry-run): `--dry-run` flag can print out information about a `turbo run` without executing any tasks, in both human and JSON-parse friendly formats
- [**Improved Internal Scheduler and Graph**](#improved-internal-scheduler-and-graph): We refactored `turbo` 's internal scheduler and graph to be more ergonomic and predictable
- [**Enhanced Remote Cache Security**](#cache-outputs-integrity-and-signature-verification): Cryptographically sign remote cache artifacts with your own secret key

Update today by running `npm install turbo@latest`. After running `turbo run` for the first time, you'll see instructions about how to use `@turbo/codemod` to run automatic migrations for `v1.2`.

## New Task Filtering API

> We are excited to release one of our most requested features: the ability to expressively filter tasks through a `--filter` flag. The `--filter` flag is the much more powerful successor to the current combination of `--scope`, `--include-dependencies`, `--since`, and `--no-deps` flags. With `--filter` you can tell `turbo` to restrict executing commands to a subset of matched packages in your monorepo based on name, folder, and even if it has changed since a git commit ref.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We are excited to release one of our most requested features: the ability to expressively filter tasks through a `--filter` flag. The `--filter` flag is the much more powerful successor to the current combination of `--scope`, `--include-dependencies`, `--since`, and `--no-deps` flags. 

With `--filter` you can tell `turbo` to restrict executing commands to a subset of matched packages in your monorepo based on name or folder, even if it has changed since a git commit ref.
```

Take a look at some examples of what you can accomplish with the new `--filter` command:

- `--filter=<package_name>` - match by exact package name or glob pattern
- `--filter=...<package_name>`- match by package name/glob and include all dependent packages of match(es)
- `--filter=...^<package_name>`- match by package name/glob and include all dependent packages of matches, but exclude the matches themselves
- `--filter=<package_name>...` - match by package name/glob and include all the matched packages' dependencies
- `--filter=<package_name>^...` - match by package name/glob and include all matched package dependencies, but exclude the matches themselves
- `--filter={./path/to/package}` - match by path or filesystem glob pattern
- `--filter=[origin/main]` - match by changed packages since a git commit ref

You can use multiple filters together to get even more granular filtering as well as combine each part of the above patterns `{}`, `[]` , `^` , and `...` to express more complex behavior.

> For example, assuming you have an app located in `./apps/web` directory, some local packages that it uses as dependencies, and a Turborepo pipeline where `test` depends on `^build` [topologically](https://turborepo.org/docs/glossary#topological-order), running:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, if you had an app located in `./apps/web` directory with local packages used as dependencies, and a Turborepo pipeline where `test` depends on `^build` [topologically](https://turborepo.org/docs/glossary#topological-order), running:
```

```sh
turbo run test --filter={./apps/web}[HEAD^1]^...
```

> would tell `turbo` to ensure that dependencies are built and to run the `test` script in all of the local dependencies of the app located in `./apps/web`, not including that app itself, if the app has changed since HEAD^1.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
would tell `turbo` to ensure dependencies are built and to run the `test` script in all of the local dependencies of the app located in `./apps/web`, not including that app itself, if the app has changed since HEAD^1.
```

> We believe `--filter` is more expressive and intuitive than `--scope`. In the future, we will be slowly deprecating the `--scope` flag.

Reviewer 5: I would recommend making this point closer to the headline of the new Filtering API landing

For more details and examples, refer to the new [filtering documentation](/docs/features/filter).

## Debug and Automate with `--dry-run`

You can now see the impact of `turbo run` without actually executing any commands by appending either `--dry-run` or `--dry-run=json` to any `turbo run` command. This will result in either human or JSON output.

> Dry runs are incredibly useful for two main situations:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Dry runs are incredibly useful for two situations:
```

- Debugging and testing run options
- Using `turbo` filtering and task graphs for building automations

![Turborepo Dry Run](/images/blog/turbo-1-2-0/turbo-dry-run.png)

> We hope that this will improve visibility into what `turbo` is doing, speeding along debugging as well as make it easier to leverage `turbo` in dynamic CI/CD systems.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We hope that this will improve visibility into what `turbo` is doing, speeding up debugging as well as make it easier to leverage `turbo` in dynamic CI/CD systems.
```

## Improved Internal Scheduler and Graph

When using `turbo run`, every `package.json` task is added to an internal graph to map dependencies based on the inferred relationships defined in your Turborepo `pipeline`. This task graph allows Turborepo to efficiently schedule incremental concurrent task running and cache task outputs for later use.

> We have made major improvements to the internal task scheduler and resulting graph structure, resulting in better performance and a better developer experience. For example, in many cases, you will no longer need to use `--include-dependencies`. Instead, after specifying your task entry points, the new and improved graph will automatically handle this graph resolution for you.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We have made major improvements to the internal task scheduler and resulting graph structure, resulting in better performance and a better developer experience. For example, in many cases, you will no longer need to use `--include-dependencies`. Instead, after specifying your task entry points, the new and improved graph will automatically handle this graph resolution on your behalf.
```

To enable this feature, set the `remoteCache` options in your `turbo.json` config file to include `signature: true`. Then specify your secret key by declaring the `TURBO_REMOTE_CACHE_SIGNATURE_KEY` environment variable.

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "[https://turborepo.org/schema.json](https://turborepo.org/schema.json)",
  "remoteCache": {
    // Indicates if signature verifcation is enabled.
    "signature": true
  }
}
```

## Other bug fixes and improvements

- `--sso-team` flag now enables teams with SAML tokens to log in through `turbo login` with correct team permissions
- `--log-output` flag allows you to control what logs are printed to the terminal, and when, allowing you to focus only on what's new
- `FORCE_COLOR` environment variable is now supported
- `TURBO_FORCE=true` environment variable will now force execution
- `--remote-only` and `TURBO_REMOTE_ONLY=true` will tell `turbo` to only use Remote Caching
- We now show `>>> FULL TURBO` when there's at least one task attempted

## We're hiring!

> The Turborepo team at [Vercel](https://vercel.com) is hiring! We're up to 5 core team members already this year and are looking to hire even more. We're specifically looking for full time [Senior Build Systems Engineers](https://vercel.com/careers/senior-build-systems-engineer-turborepo-us-4383106004).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Turborepo team at [Vercel](https://vercel.com) is hiring! We're up to five core team members already this year and are looking to hire even more. We're specifically looking for full-time [Senior Build Systems Engineers](https://vercel.com/careers/senior-build-systems-engineer-turborepo-us-4383106004).
```

## What's next?

Along with seamless incremental adoption/migration and speeding up CI/CD, we've been focusing on improving Turborepo's day-to-day ergonomics, security, and observability. The new `--filter` flag, signed artifacts, and dry runs are important steps toward those goals.

> Next up, we'll be focusing an enhanced local development experience, codebase automations, and overall CLI performance.

Reviewer 4: Do you want to give a shoutout to the contributors like the Next.js releases?

Author: Yes will aggregate them all
